Good afternoon.
Does this work?
Good.
Excellent.
Hi.
Welcome to session 602, QuickTime for
Video-Intensive Applications.
And this is when application
became more video-intensive.
This is PowerPoint running
a QuickTime movie for all
of those who were wondering.
It's pretty cool.
New this year at WWDC.
My name is Tim Chernna.
I'm manager of the
QuickTime Pro Media Group.
We specialize in support for high-end
video applications and audio applications
and do the support for the DV codec
and YUV SD and HD and Final Cut and
iMovie and Adobe Premiere and
a bunch of other developers.
So that's kind of what we focus on.
Today's session,
we're actually going to talk a little bit
more about video and audio in general,
things that you can do in QuickTime for
any application that wants to
become more video intensive.
And the three areas that we're going
to be talking about are acquisition,
video processing, and video output.
Acquisition is basically
capturing video and audio,
and we're going to be talking a little
bit about some of the new camera support
we have in QuickTime 6 and Jaguar.
Video processing,
we're going to be showing you some
techniques for doing cool things to
video that you have in your movies or
with your camera that you're capturing.
And video output, finally,
is the way that you can take
the video and output it to
an external video device.
Some of you have seen the overview slide,
the graphic that we made.
This is sort of showing
the different components of
QuickTime that exist in the system.
And the ones that are highlighted
are the ones that we're
going to be talking about.
So the standard compression,
standard sound, the Sequence Grabber,
and then some of the
components that we have,
which are the eat and spit,
which are the import
and export components,
Vout, which is to send video to a device,
and the digitizers.
And with that,
I'd like to introduce Kevin Marks,
who's going to be talking about
acquisition with QuickTime.
Hi there.
I just want to make it clear that
acquisition is not about getting
your company bought by Apple.
What I'm going to talk about
is the Sequence Grabber,
which is QuickTime's way of getting
video and audio from the outside
world into QuickTime movies so that
you can use in other applications
like you saw this morning.
are all here.
There's two parts to what I'm saying.
I'm going to give an overview of
how the Sequence Grabber works.
For those of you who aren't
familiar with QuickTime,
this API has been around
for about 10 years now,
and it's served its time
pretty well over there.
I'm going to give some introductory
stuff about how that works,
and then I'm going to give some
details of some of the changes we've
made for QuickTime 6 and Jaguar,
which we have more interest
to specialized developers who
already know something about this.
So there's a mixture of the two in this.
And then we'll have some nice
demos and lobsters and things.
So, QuickTime provides an abstraction
that lets you capture video
and audio and other formats.
The Sequence Grabber is a generalized
way of capturing time-based
media from an external device.
At the moment, we only provide video and
audio capture components.
In principle, you could add other
ones if you wanted to,
and if there are things that
you're interested in that,
let us know.
The idea is that the Sequence Grabber
abstracts this from your application,
so you don't have to know anything
about the hardware you're dealing with.
You just say what kind of media you want,
and let the user choose what
they're going to capture.
The Sequence Grabber holds
a series of channels.
So in order to capture something,
you create a Sequence Grabber
component and you add channels to
it for the kinds of media you want,
video and audio channels.
The channels are the ones
that deal with the hardware,
talk to the devices,
and get the data out in a usable
form and turn that into a movie.
Any number of channels is possible.
The constraint is normally the
hardware you've got attached.
And the source code for this,
the example source code, remains HackTV,
which has stood the test of time as it's
been source code for about 10 years now.
It's been updated a bit for OS X,
and we intend to update it
a bit further in the future.
URLs for source code will
show up in the final slide.
So the basic way you would use the
Sequence Grabber to capture something,
there's a straightforward
series of calls you make.
You create the Sequence Grabber,
and you create channels
and add those to it.
And then you would call
SGSettingsDialog for each channel
that you're interested in.
This provides a very full user interface
for the user to make complex series
of choices about what's available.
They can choose between
different devices.
They can choose the compression format.
And set other parameters about
controlling the capture devices.
For example,
setting the input for a video camera,
or adjusting color and
that kind of thing.
There's a large amount of user
interface there that's constructed
for you by the Sequence Grabber,
so save you having to do that as well.
Once you've done that and you're ready,
you call SG Prepare.
This gives the devices
time to start recording,
to start buffering up data.
It pre-allocates the files
on the disk and gets ready,
so when you call SG Start Record,
it can start straight away.
Then while you're recording,
you call SG Idle at regular intervals.
At the moment, we haven't got this hooked
up to the Idle Manager,
but the rule of thumb is call it at least
as often as the frame rate you want.
On OS 9 and Windows,
you would call this from the
WaitNext Event loop or in a tight loop.
On OS 10,
you can use a CF1 loop to call this.
And when you're finished recording,
you call SG Stop.
At that point,
QuickTime will stop all the
devices and then create the movie
header that describes the file.
This describes the media that's
already recorded to the disk.
So moving on to some of the new
things of editing QuickTime 6.
These are mostly incremental
improvements for the Sequence Grabber.
The basic way it works hasn't changed,
but we've made a series of small
changes to update it and provide
new user interface and better
user experience in various places.
And some of this is involved with
adding new programming APIs to make
life easier for the developers too.
The Sequence Grabber has a way of
finding the devices that are attached.
Up to QuickTime 5,
that will just tell you the devices.
If you wanted to find any
more information about them,
you had to open them
individually and query them.
We've extended that structure so
it will now tell you what inputs
the devices have available,
and you can pass a new flag to get that.
In addition to that,
we've added some new utility
function calls to let you adjust
these input parameters without
having to make direct driver calls.
And without having to make the
different driver calls for audio
and video that you had to do before.
So these are listed here.
There's going to be more details in the
QuickTime 6 developer documentation.
But the SGGetChannelDevice and
InputNames lets you find out the device's
name without calling device list,
walking the device tree,
and then making further
calls to find the input name.
And SetChannelDeviceInput
gives you a channel-independent
way of changing the input.
We've made some significant changes
to the Sequence Grabber panels,
mostly in UI terms.
They're now much more modern looking.
They've been updated to fit
in with the OS X Aqua style.
They're resizable, and as part of that,
we need to give the SGPanels,
which are the Video Digitizer's way
of extending that user interface,
as a way of telling us
how we can resize them.
So we have a new call,
SGPanel getDittlesize,
where we pass you the size that we
want you to fit the dialog into,
and you return the dialog layout for us.
And there are some additional...
You don't have to support every size.
If you support largest
and smallest sizes,
we'll interpolate the
dialog elements for you.
and we have another utility called
SGGetChannelRefCon because that
seemed to be missing from the API.
A key change we made to the Sequence
Grabber panels and the settings is that
we now store far more information so
that we can properly identify the VDIG.
The previous assumption in the Sequence
Grabber was that video digitizers
were on cards in your machine.
You'd probably have one of them,
and you wouldn't change it very often.
In a world of USB cameras and FireWire
cameras where devices are hot-pluggable,
this isn't true anymore.
The devices can come and go,
and we need to keep track
of more information to
find out which one's which,
so that when you save
and restore settings,
you get the same camera
back you got before,
even if you got two or three plugged in.
So we now store extra information,
but we're still careful to... If we
can't find the camera we're looking for,
we'll fall back to a different camera,
depending on what camera you've got.
So you can still use...
You can use the settings call
in a general way and we'll
cope with what you have.
But if you've got the same
camera you started with before,
we'll make sure we get
that one back again.
As part of these changes,
we've made some changes to
the way the Sequence Grabber
interacts with the Video Digitizer.
For those of you who are
developing Video Digitizers,
there are some
Small changes to the way this API works.
In particular,
the recommended video digitizer API is
to use the VD compressed one frame,
a VD compressed done call.
VD compressed done second parameter
was defined as a Boolean saying,
yes, I have a frame, meaning one, zero,
I don't have a frame.
We've redefined this to be the number of
frames that you actually have queued up
inside so that we can make further calls
to pull only out to deal with variations
in idle timing and that kind of thing.
The notion is that the VD is doing
the buffering and the Sequence Grabber
will pull out the frames that you have.
And as an application,
you can get access to this
information by setting an
SG grab compressed complete proc,
calling through to the Sequence Grabber,
and then looking at this frame's value.
Another change to this interaction
that we've added is that previously
the Sequence Grabber and the VDIG,
the Sequence Grabber kept
the VDIG in the dark.
The VDIG didn't know whether it
was being recorded or previewed
or what was going on at all.
It just had to handle giving
the Sequence Grabber bits,
and the Sequence Grabber would deal
with what it did with them afterwards.
With the kind of VDs that we need now
when you're plugging multiple ones,
they need to know when they
should allocate bandwidth
on the USB or the FireWire.
They need to know more information
about what's going on so they can
make sensible decisions themselves.
VD developers up to now have had to
use heuristics about our call sequence
to try and guess what's going on here.
So we've added a new call,
VD Capture State Changing,
which tells the video digitizer when
we're changing from a preview state
to a recording state to a stop state.
And there are additional flags in
there to provide further information.
Two of these flags are accessible from
outside for applications to pass through.
This is SetGrabLowLatencyCapture.
The idea of that is for applications
such as video conferencing,
live streaming,
or real-time image processing,
where you're not concerned
about getting every frame,
you just want to make sure
you get a fresh frame.
If you set that flag,
that will be passed through
to the video digitizer,
and it can adjust its
buffering accordingly.
The second flag,
SetGrabAlwaysUseTimeBase,
is designed to tell the video digitizer
that it should really pay attention
to the time base it's passed in,
rather than just round off every
frame to the same duration,
which is a technique that many
VDICs have used in the past,
which fits better with the way
broadcast thinks about video as a
series of uniformly spaced frames.
But if you're trying to synchronize that
to another source inside the computer,
it's more useful to know the
exact start time of the frame,
rather than round it off,
because you find that
over time they'll diverge.
And if you're running a security camera
application 24 hours a day for a month,
any small divergence will
be bad after that time.
Other changes we've made to the Sequence
Grabber and Video Digitizer interaction.
We've made it easier for Video Digitizers
to support more than one device.
Previously,
because we always used the component
name as the thing we displayed,
you effectively had to register one
component for each device you had.
And that was particularly
cumbersome under 10,
because you end up registering them
with every application you launch,
rather than doing it globally.
So we've added a Video Digitizer call,
VDGetDeviceName and flags.
which is designed for VDIG to
dynamically report what the name of
the device is currently got plugged in,
rather than having a
generic name from the VDIG.
So this is particularly useful
for hot-pluggable cameras,
where you could have one generic
VDIG supporting many different ones,
or you could come up with a user
way of naming the devices and then
report those names back if you wanted
to store preferences like that.
Additionally,
we've added these unique ID APIs to help
you identify a specific hardware device.
FireWire devices have
unique IDs by default.
USB ones don't.
As part of the standard,
they can have those added
in ROMs or whatever.
You may have a private
API to query those.
The point of these is for
the persistent settings that
the Sequence Grabber stores.
The Sequence Grabber will call
VDIG at unique IDs and ask for
the unique identifier for the
device and the input in use,
and it will store those
in the preferences.
When it wants to restore that,
it will call VD_SELECT_UNIQUE_IDs.
Note that it's select, not set,
because we can't change the unique ID.
We just want to say, if you have a device
with that ID attached,
please start using it.
Back to a more general piece.
When we moved to OS X,
we deprecated SND record to file.
Well, we had actually deprecated
it a while back on 9,
but we didn't implement it at
all on 10 because it didn't fit
in with the way that OS X works.
The recommended way for capturing
sound is to use the Sequence
Grabber with a sound channel.
In QuickTime 5.04 on Mac OS X and
now in QuickTime 6 on all platforms,
we've adapted the sound recordings to
use much better sample rate conversion
and to allow bit depth and channel
conversion so that you can record from,
say,
a stereo 48 kHz source at 8 kHz mono.
[Transcript missing]
Other enhancements we've
made to video capture,
as was mentioned in Tim's
keynote this morning,
we've added support for
the iIDC class of cameras.
This is a general spec for FireWire
cameras that you can plug in different
ones for multiple manufacturers,
and there's a wire format
defined for what they're sending.
The data is not compressed,
but it can be YUV or RGB,
and we've got some
broad support for that.
In addition, as I said,
we've changed the settings user
interface to add a series of features,
which we'll demonstrate for you shortly,
to bring it up to date
with the rest of the OS.
And there's some extra
features specifically for
supporting the iIDC cameras.
So I'd like to invite Sean Williams up
to show us these new IDC cameras.
As Kevin mentioned, Jaguar,
we support a new class of firewire
devices called the IIDC cameras.
It's a mouthful of an acronym.
It stands for something
like Instrumentation and
Industrial Digital Camera.
But the spec is flexible enough that it
provides for a wide range of devices,
ranging from lower-priced
consumer webcam-type cameras for
under $100 up to higher-level
$1,000 3CD fancy optic devices.
So I'd real quickly like to
demonstrate that for you all.
Since it is firewire, as you can imagine,
you can plug up to 60... 63 of
these devices into your computer,
and we'd like to essentially let you
digitize from all the cameras which
you have firewire bandwidth for.
So I'm going to quickly show
the different scenarios in which
multiple cameras can be used
under Jaguar with QuickTime 6.
So the first thing I'd like to do
is show you a single application
[Transcript missing]
and you'll see one application
using multiple inputs.
Similarly,
there's no reason you need to limit
yourself to just one application.
Let's go back to single window mode here.
Here I have one application again,
grabbing from one camera.
And I'll just start up
a second application.
And you have two streams
running simultaneously,
different apps.
As long as I had,
I could conceivably launch several
more applications and be capturing
from all of them concurrently.
So finally,
you can imagine applications such as
maybe stereoscopic imaging or something
like that where it would be useful to
have one application simultaneously
capturing from two different cameras.
And I've got a quick little demo of
that sort of operation going on here.
And as you can see,
a single application could open
up multiple video channels and
concurrently be grabbing from them.
So you can imagine different
applications for that in the future.
Finally,
Kevin mentioned that the Sequence
Grabber settings dialog has been
revised to become more Aqua compliant,
so I'd like to show you that briefly.
The first thing you'll notice
is that as opposed to being a
pop-up menu-driven interface,
we now are a tab-based interface
consistent with the look and
feel of other OS X applications.
Similarly, for the source menu,
instead of being a pop-up,
it's a scrollable list so I can
just seamlessly toggle back
and forth between devices.
The observant few, or many in here,
would notice that there's a new
set of panels that are available.
Let me quickly jump over here.
In addition to the existing compression,
image, and source panels of the past,
we've added a new color,
[Transcript missing]
There's a, in addition to the standard
live preview window,
we have another preview
source where you could,
for example,
be looking at the compressed image.
If you needed to,
you could throw it into a
vectorscope mode and quickly see...
[Transcript missing]
So that pretty much covers the IIDC and
the new Sequence Grabber panels.
So thank you very much, Kevin.
introduce Tom Dowdy to talk
about video processing.
Thanks, Kevin.
I'm taller than Tim is.
One of the most common questions that
we get asked when talking about video
capture or movie playback is how
to perform processing on the video.
and it's a reasonable question
for developers to ask.
There are lots of ways for QuickTime to
perform operations on video,
either video you've already captured
or video you're in the process
of capturing or video that you're
in the process of playing back.
And it can be confusing to find
your way through all the APIs.
So we thought we'd take some time today
to talk about the various techniques you
can use to get your hands on the video,
perform modifications of
it within your application.
So the first type of processing that
we think is appropriate for people to
consider is processing live capture.
This is a situation where you
may have a camera that's being
digitized coming through QuickTime,
and the compressed data can be
given to your application before
anything else is done to it.
This is done through the
application's SGDataProc,
which you install.
At that point,
you can decompress the video,
display it to the screen,
you can process the video,
save it to a file,
or a combination of the two.
So what's good about this?
Well, the good thing about this
is it takes place live,
interactively,
while the user is digitizing the video.
What's bad about this?
Well, it takes place live,
while the user is digitizing the video,
which means that if your processing
algorithm takes a long time,
you can cause dropped frames to
take place during the capture.
This isn't really an appropriate
sort of thing for you to be doing
if you're doing pro-level capture,
but if you have a capture application
that's for lower data rate or smaller
size video or situations where perfect
frame capture is not necessary,
for example, maybe you're doing a
preview capture of a tape,
a roll-through,
the user is going to do some adjustments,
they want to take a look at it,
and then they're going to later go
make a second pass through the video,
do a real capture.
It might be okay to do this kind
of adjustment at that point.
It's also fine to use for operations
like webcams or where you might
be performing detection on the
video stream which is coming in,
and you're going to,
based upon the detection,
do some actual capture.
So, you're going to be able to do that.
So, that's the first action.
The source code that demonstrates
how to do live capture processing,
the SGDataProc sample,
which used to be known as Minimung,
there is one really important
thing about this sample code.
If you've previously
downloaded samples of Minimung,
you're going to nod, right?
If you've previously downloaded
examples of Minimung,
you should make sure you download,
and you,
and incorporate them in your application,
you should make sure that you download
the latest sample code and check
it out because there was one very
small bug in the Minimung example
code that could cause some problems
in your application depending on
what you're doing with the data.
So, enough of that.
How about a demo?
Okay, take it away, Kevin.
Okay, so we've had a lot of requests
for people to do live demos,
and one of the most unusual ones we heard
of was from someone called Robert Huber,
who wanted to use the Sequence
Grabber to detect lobsters in a tank.
So we thought this was an
interesting approach for the demo.
So...
I'm going to launch the Sequence Grabber,
choose the camera here.
Wrong one.
Oops.
and even I've got the Lobster
Detection Program running here.
So if I'm going to bring
my lobster in here,
[Transcript missing]
Want to tell us how that works, Tom?
Sure.
I suspect that the person who
is doing scientific detecting
of lobsters in a tank is using
a slightly more sophisticated
algorithm than the one we used here,
which we're using the SG data sample.
are all involved in this.
The first step is to capture the video.
The data comes in,
we decompress it into an off-screen.
At that point we scan through the video,
converting it into YUV,
and looking for colors of red
that are present in lobsters.
And when we detect that there
is enough red in the frame,
we say, "Hmm, there must be a lobster
there." We record the left,
right, top,
and bottom area where the lobster is.
That forms the rectangle
that's drawn on the screen.
And then based upon the area of the
screen that's covered with the rectangle,
well that's how big the lobster is and
how much melted butter you would need.
It's a recurring theme
in the QuickTime team,
lobsters for some strange reason.
Slides, please.
Okay.
So the next type of question
we get all the time is,
"Alright, I don't want to process the
movie as I'm capturing it.
I want to capture the movie
and then later I want to do
some processing on it." So,
what goes on here?
You've got a movie,
it's saved out on disk somewhere,
you read the movie in,
it's going to come into QuickTime.
You direct that movie into an off-screen.
QuickTime will give you
the raw pixel information.
It will go into the off-screen.
At that point,
you can perform whatever processing
you want to do on the off-screen.
For example, here we're placing a text
overlay on top of the video.
You can then send the
data back into QuickTime,
have it be recompressed and exported
in whatever format QuickTime supports,
in this case an MPEG-4 file,
and it gets written out
into a brand-new movie.
So, what are the pros and
cons of this approach?
Well, one of the pros is that all
the frames get modified.
Since you're processing
them one at a time,
you're sure that they all
go through the system.
There's no time constraints here.
If you have an algorithm that takes
one hour to process every frame,
that's just fine.
Every frame will still get processed.
None will be skipped.
It might take a while
to do the whole video,
but they all will go through.
The downside to this
is it's not real time.
And that's on both sides of the fence.
If your algorithm does take a long time,
it's going to take greater than
real time for the movie to be
processed or displayed to the user.
Similarly, if your algorithm is
faster than real time,
you're going to proceed through the
movie quicker than in real time.
Once again, that might be confusing
or annoying to the user.
Also, because this process
is potentially lengthy,
it's difficult to have more
than one setting for the user.
Typically,
you set up the things at the beginning,
and you do a batch process,
and you go through all the frames.
This isn't a really great thing
for interacting with the user,
and they want to change
things as they go along.
But what are some things
you might do here?
Well, the real basic one is if you're
just recompressing the movie
from one format to another,
that's a great thing to be doing here.
But before you do that compression,
you might want to be
doing a 3-2 pull-down,
you might want to blur
or sharpen the image,
deinterlace it,
do all those other sorts of
pixel image processing operations
you might want to do on video.
The canonical source to this,
which has been out there for a while,
is called Convert to Movie Junior.
It shows an example of how
to do this basic operation.
But let's have a demo instead.
So what we're going to do for this
demo is add an overlay onto the movie.
So imagine you just
made this great movie,
you wanted to send that
to someone for approval,
but you wanted to make sure it
had your overlay on it so they
wouldn't use it before they paid you.
So I'm going to open up this
Jellyfish movie that I filmed earlier.
choose the compression I'm going to use,
in this case, JPEG,
and run the processing.
I'm going to save it out as...
[Transcript missing]
and the rest of the team
are working on the project.
Tim Cherna, Kevin Marks, Sean Williams,
Tom Dowdy, Jean-Michel Berthoud
Couple of things to note about that demo.
First of all,
when you're doing video compression,
Kevin brought up the standard
video compression dialogue and
the options that were there.
If you have an application
that's doing video compression,
it's really strongly recommended that
you use the standard compression dialogue
to let your user configure the options.
By doing that,
you make sure that whenever
we add additional options
specific to a particular codec,
they're available to the
user to tweak the settings.
If you need to do batch processing
or you need to have scripting
type interfaces to this,
you can also do the
same settings via code,
but it's always preferable to have
some way for the user to get to the
settings via the dialogue and save
them away so they can later do them.
This is, like I said,
the preferred way to do
recompression or compression of data.
And once again,
the convert to movie junior
source code shows example of
how to bring up the dialogue,
how to run this compression and
put the data back out into a movie.
[Transcript missing]
The third type of processing that people
want to do on movies is to process a
movie in real time while it plays back.
Now there's a feature of
QuickTime movies that's been
around since QuickTime 3.0 called
the QuickTime Effects Architecture,
and certainly it's worth taking a look
at that if you're not aware of it.
We're not going to
focus a lot on it today,
but we're going to talk about
it briefly for those of you
who aren't familiar with it.
The QuickTime Effects Architecture is
a way to operate on tracks,
a track or tracks,
and do image processing or
effects on those tracks.
For example,
transitions between one track or another,
or a traveling matte, or a gradient wipe,
or a blur or a sharpen.
The QuickTime Effects architecture,
however, operates on individual tracks,
not entire movies.
If you're interested in how to do
processing of movies using effects,
you can look at the
Make Effect Movie Source Code that's
available on Apple's website.
Today we're going to focus more, however,
on processing the movie
within your application.
So this is a type of processing that
operates on the entire movie at once.
That is to say, the whole frame,
which might be composed
of multiple tracks.
An example of this that you
may be aware of today is the
Video Adjustments feature,
which is inside QuickTime Player.
This feature is implemented
by using the techniques that
we're about to talk about.
So how does this all work?
You have a movie, and QuickTime is going
to play the movie back.
Your application registers
a draw complete proc and
directs the movie off screen.
QuickTime then decompresses the movie,
producing raw pixel data,
and calls your application back
whenever there's actually a
change that's taken place in what
should be displayed to the user.
You can then take the resulting data,
you can display it to the screen,
you can process it, save it away,
do both, whatever is appropriate for the
type of thing you're trying to do.
Pros and cons again.
are all involved in this.
The user can interact with the playback
and it works on the whole movie at once,
no matter how many frames there are.
There is a downside to this.
And that's that as the movie is playing,
QuickTime will use its normal frame
skipping algorithm to skip frames if
your processing or the video playback
is not able to keep up with real time.
That's so that the video
stays in sync with the audio.
The other downside to this,
it can be difficult to package
your particular processing
code up because it's taking
place within your application.
So if this is something that needs to
be available in multiple applications
or needs to be able to be delivered
independent of the movie itself,
the effect approach would
be more appropriate.
Like I said,
a good example of use of this is
live movie adjustments or adjusting
the various video settings that
are done in QuickTime Player today.
The example code for this is called
MovieGWorlds and it's been out on Apple's
QuickTime example code site for a while.
How about another demo?
Okay.
So...
What we're going to do here is play
back the jellyfish movie again and
adjust the color while it's playing.
So it's playing here.
You can see it's drawing
a histogram of the red,
green, and blue in the picture.
Say we wanted to get rid of
that blue and gradually turn it
down so that the sea is green.
We can do that by adjusting
the range that the blue
occupies on the fly like this.
And again, if we didn't like the red,
we can turn that down and make
the jellyfish greenish too
and put the blue back to full.
We've got a sort of reddish jellyfish.
We can even completely mess
up the thing by putting the...
[Transcript missing]
and others.
So you can see there's a fair
amount of processing going on there.
I mean, if nothing else,
just displaying the histograms
is something that might
be useful to the user.
But here we're actually allowing
the user to adjust those things.
And we're still achieving very
good frame rate movie playback.
As I said, there is the possibility of
frames being skipped here.
That doesn't mean they
have to be skipped.
This machine is more than
capable of keeping up with this.
And I assure you that I'm not
using particularly sophisticated
technique for drawing that graph.
So we'll go back to slides now.
Okay,
so we talk about processing the video.
So what do we mean by
processing the video?
How can you actually
perform the processing?
Well, as I said,
one thing you could do is QuickTime has
a number of effects that are built in:
blurs, sharpens, film noise, transitions,
et cetera.
You could take advantage of these effects
and call them from any of the processing
techniques that I just outlined.
Another common thing to want to
do is to write some custom code.
If you want to look for
lobsters in your application,
you're probably going to have
to write some custom code.
I don't think the lobster finding
algorithm is going to make its way into
QuickTime any time in the near future,
but you never know.
So you're going to have custom
code in your application
to perform the processing.
The biggest issue here is if you
want to be able to... Excuse me.
That was great.
Okay, so the biggest issue here is if
you want to be able to perform your
processing live on video as it's
being captured or on movies as they're
being played back and you want to
have the user have a good experience,
you need to concern
yourself with performance.
But even if your application is just
a movie grinding type application,
you're wanting to perform processing
on a movie and save it out,
you still should think about performance
because if your particular movie,
as it processes the movie and
saves it out into a movie,
takes four times real time, well,
your users are going to be a lot
less likely to want to feed an hour's
worth of video through that thing.
So performance is always an issue.
So how to deal with performance?
Well, the first thing is just do
your basic optimization,
right?
Make things faster.
That's always a good idea.
But you should also take advantage
of things like the hardware,
such as the velocity engine
that's available in the G4.
A lot of pixel processing algorithms
lend themselves very much to
use of the G4 velocity engine.
Similarly, almost all these algorithms
have some amount of performance.
So if you're going to be able to do
a lot of processing live with a G4,
you want to take advantage of the
fact that you're able to use a lot of
the processor separability to them.
So being able to process a single frame
of video using multiple processors via
threads is a very smart idea when this is
the kind of thing you're talking about.
A third type of processing that
you might not have thought of
is using the OpenGL hardware.
There's some sessions here that talk
about integrating OpenGL with QuickTime.
Unfortunately,
the session was just before this one,
so some of you might have missed that.
But in the session,
they talk about using the 3D engine as
essentially a math engine to perform
some of this processing for you.
Not all algorithms are suited to this,
and it can sometimes be
very hardware-dependent,
but once again,
that might be appropriate for
your type of image manipulation.
Another thing that's often an issue
in this realm or this space is how to
actually get the data back to the screen.
Surprisingly enough, I mean,
often you would think that
that would be obvious,
but it's not.
And part of the reason it's
not obvious is there's a bunch
of different ways to do it.
The simplest method,
and if you don't have
complicated performance
requirements or special needs,
these are probably listed in the
order of simpler to more complicated,
are the ways in which you
should deal with this,
is to make use of the 2D graphics calls.
For example, copy bits if you're familiar
with the Carbon World,
NSImage if you're a Cocoa developer,
and that's the type of
mechanism you want to use.
A third thing that you consider,
a lot of people aren't aware of this,
but it's very easy to make a
decompression sequence within
QuickTime that can perform the
2D graphics operations for you
for transferring data from an
off screen onto the screen.
The big advantage of using a
decompression sequence is that
with a decompression sequence
you're able to factor out the
setup portion of your call from the
actual drawing portion of your call.
This can make the subsequent
draws when you're processing
multiple frames much faster.
Another way to get data to the screen
is to build in your application a
decompression component that performs
the video processing and at the same
time draws the data to the screen.
This is a very powerful technique as used
in several of the demos that we did here,
because you are pipelining the
processing of the pixels along with the
drawing of the pixels to the screen.
It's also a very easy way to deal with
all of the various frame buffer formats,
clipping, cursor hiding,
flushing of the screen, et cetera,
by simply putting your code inside
of a decompression component,
using it within that environment,
all those issues are dealt
with for you by QuickTime.
The third way to get the data to the
screen is to take the QuickTime movie
that's in the G world and place
it in an OpenGL texture and then
use the normal OpenGL calls to
render that texture to the screen.
This has a great
advantage because OpenGL,
assuming that you've set up your
textures properly and they're aligned
appropriately and everything and the
hardware is set up so that it's doing
all the things you need it to do,
OpenGL is able to asynchronously
DMA the memory directly from the
buffer you have up onto the card.
This allows you to essentially
pipeline additional processing
while that transfer is taking place.
There's two examples on Apple's website
that are worth taking a look here.
One is called Fast Textures,
this is in the 3D section,
another one is called OpenGL Movie.
These both show techniques
for taking data off screen and
transferring it quickly on screen
by using the OpenGL engine.
How about more demos?
We always like more demos.
Everyone loves demos.
Well, maybe not everyone.
Okay.
So,
we've got a... We showed various effects.
We showed a single effect
for a Sequence Grabber,
for Movie Conversion, and for Playback.
What I'm going to do now is show the
effect you choose isn't dependent
on the way you're doing it.
So I'm going to show Sequence
Grabbing with an alpha overlay.
So here you can see what it would be
like if I had a lobster on my head.
In this case, we're capturing the video
with the Sequence Grabber,
drawing it off screen,
compositing that with the
lobster image we used before,
and drawing that back to the screen.
And you can see the frame rate is
keeping up pretty well because the
Sequence Grabber is dealing with
getting the data in the right format
and getting it to the GWorld for you,
and then you can do pixel
processing after that.
Now we'll do the color adjustment
on the Live Sequence Grabber now.
So this is coming in.
I can make myself more red.
I can...
Take out the blue.
I can posterize myself.
Make the screen go a
funny color behind me.
come up with this nice sort
of 1970s-looking effect here.
And again,
this is doing the same pixel processing
operations we were doing before on
the movie as it was playing back,
but we're doing it on the
GWorld that's being fed from
data from the Sequence Grabber,
because the two parts are separable.
This is an example of
applying a QuickTime effect.
So...
The film noise effect is being
applied over the top of me,
so I'm going to black and white.
There are film scratches coming up.
are all involved in the project.
Tim Cherna, Kevin Marks, Sean Williams,
Tom Dowdy, Jean-Michel Berthoud
and as we have two IDC cameras attached,
we can add a QuickTime effect that takes
two sources and blends them together.
So we can have this nice background here,
and then we can bring
up the heart around,
head in the right place.
I can maybe respond to it, Tom.
So we can see we're performing
this effect on there.
Both cameras are actually
capturing that's going on here.
And similarly, we can apply these same
filters to the movie playback.
So for example,
we could do the movie playback
of the jellyfish with the
lobster over it in real time.
The processing stage is independent of
the way you get the data in and out.
Okay.
Thanks, Kevin.
Okay, now to Jean-Michel.
Thank you, Tom.
So Kevin talked to you
about digitizing video.
Then Tom talked to you about
processing this video that
you digitize on your computer.
So the last step you might want
to add to your application is the
capability of outputting these
movies to a specific video device.
And that's what video
output are all about.
So originally QuickTime was
capable of playing movies
only on your computer desktop,
and that's why we had to come up
with this video output component in
order to support different devices
like Analog One or Digital Now.
But basically the idea is to be
able to send this video to a device
which is not a computer desktop.
So that does include
third-party I/O cards,
fire-wired devices,
and any other peripherals that
third-party could add to your system.
Later on, we're going to show you some
demo of this video output stuff,
and the sample code is on our website,
and it's called Simple Video Output.
It's a simple application.
You can use the code.
We did add an old word
post-it with the same name,
so you might want to check it out
for the updated version we have now.
So movies plays on the G-Wall anywhere,
whether you play it on your desktop
or on your video output devices.
So this video output component
provides the G-Wall so you can
set them up and point to them.
The thing you have to understand is that
only QuickTime can use this G-World.
It's not known as a QuickDraw G-World,
so you cannot use QuickDraw and
do a bunch of drawing on it.
You have to use QuickTime in order
to draw to this specific G-World.
Video output components provide some
information about their capabilities.
They might be attached to an
audio output device as well,
so you might want to figure out
what's the hardware setup to play
audio and video on the same device.
They can provide some clock
components so they maintain the
synchronization between audio and video.
Some of them support what
we call the EchoPort,
which is basically the capability to
output to this specific device and
to display a kind of preview on your
desktop computer at the same time.
Video outputs are just components.
You find them like any regular component.
You use the FindNext component,
and the type of this video output
component is QtVideoOutputComponentType.
One thing you have to be careful
of is that in order to have this...
Video output component,
QuickTime has built in a
base video output component,
which is always going to show up in the
list of video output component available
in order to take it out of your list
so you present to the user only the
real device available on the system.
You have to set this flag mask called
KQT video output don't display to user,
so we take it out of the
list of available devices.
So the way you are getting this device's
capabilities is to use three APIs.
The first one is Qt Video Output
Get Display Mode List,
which provides a list of all
the different resolutions of
timing that this device supports,
like, for instance, NTSC, square pixel,
non-square pixel,
everything this device can support,
they should list them as a
different mode in their list.
The way you figure out about the...
The sound capability of this
video output device is to use the
QtVideoOutputGetIndexedSum output.
And this will tell you if this
device has a specific audio
device attached to it or not.
And the last thing is the
QtVideoOutputGetClark API,
which lets you figure out if
this specific device needs
or doesn't need a clock.
So how do you select this video output
component as soon as you find it?
Basically, it's a two-step process.
The first one,
you have to set up this video output
component and tell it how you're
going to decide to output your movies.
So you're doing that using the
video output component itself.
The second step is to tell the
QuickTime movie toolbox that the
movie you had somewhere is going to be
pointed to this video output component.
So there is four APIs in order to
set up the video output component.
You have to tell this video
output component what display
mode they have to use.
You have to start it using the
QtVideoOutputBegin API just to
tell the hardware you are about
to play a movie on this device.
You have to get this GRO from
this component as well.
And we're going to see
how we use it later on.
The last one is to tell this device if
you want to have an echo port or not.
In this example,
I'm passing Neil to this Qt
Video Output Set Echo Port API to
tell this device I don't want to
see anything on the desktop anymore.
So the second step is about the
QuickTime movie tool block itself.
So you have to tell the tool block
that this movie is about to point
to this video output component.
And the next one is to basically set
the movie G-roll to whatever this
output component device returns to you.
So it's pretty simple, I mean,
just not that much to be concerned about.
The Echo Port.
The Echo Port is something, as I say,
which is optional.
So not all devices are able to
output to their hardware at the
same time that they can still play
something on your computer desktop.
Our own built-in FireWire component,
for instance, do support a kind of
preview on the desktop.
It's not playing all the frame,
it's not the best quality,
but at least the user has some
feedback of what's happening on
the computer screen and is able to
see on FireWire device connected
the full frame rate of the video.
In order to figure out if this
VR component is implemented or not,
this echo port,
you have to use this Get Component
Implemented with this selector,
kqt-video-output-set-echoport-select.
It's a pretty short one, isn't it?
Then you have, if as soon as a component
does support the echo port,
You can use this API Qt Video Output
Set Echo Port to whatever your
Windows want on your computer desktop.
And the next thing they have to do is to
use the regular QuickTime API to set the
movie G-Wall to basically your window.
So when you want to stop to output
this movie to this video device,
basically you point back
to your Windows URL,
you use this API chooseMovieClock
basically to reset the clock that
QuickTime is using for the movie.
We'll see later on why I'm
putting that in this slide.
I didn't show you any
example of the clock,
but in case the component had a clock,
you had to reset it.
So it's much, much safer to call this
API all the time you do that.
And then you set the movie video to nil.
And the last thing you have to do now
that the movie is no longer pointing
to this device is to stop the hardware
by calling the Qt Video output N.
So the sound.
As I said, this is optional.
Not all devices are
attached to a sound output.
[Transcript missing]
If the component does implement it,
then you get this sound output
component instance using Qt
Video Output Get Index Sound Output.
And the last thing you have to do in
order to point the movie to this specific
sound device is to basically loop on
all the sound media track that your movie
has and use the media set sound output
component with this sound component
that the video output reported to you.
The clock.
Most of these devices need
some synchronization mechanism
between audio and video.
If they want that to happen,
they need to provide their own clock,
which is basically driving
their own hardware,
rather than relying on the
clock we have on the CPU side.
So,
same thing that the two other optional
functions of this video output component.
You need to figure out if they
do implement that by using the
kqt-video-output-get-clock-select.
And if they do,
then same thing for the sound one.
You ask them what their clock
component is all about using
kqt-video-output-get-clock.
And to set it, you're using this
setMovieMasterClock API with the
clock component they did recently.
too.
So now let's switch to the demo and show
you what all this stuff is all about.
Can we switch to the demo one?
Yeah.
Okay, so we don't have video going
straight into the projector,
so I'm showing the video from the camera
by digitizing it with the FireWire camera
we were using earlier and displaying
it in another window on the screen.
So that's what that video
input you can see there is now.
It's a picture of the
display on the camera.
I'm going to open the
Simple Video Out example application,
and it's searched the system
for video output components.
It's found that we've only got the
FireWire video output component,
and there's a choice of modes
that this component can do.
You'll notice that one of the features
we've added in QuickTime 6 is DVC ProPal,
which is very handy if you come from
Europe like myself and Jean-Michel.
But as we're in America,
we'll stick with NTSC.
And it's telling us the
dimensions of the output port,
720x480, the refresh rate,
which is rounded off to 29 from 3997,
and the pixel type it's expecting,
which is DV.
So we should try and play
back a DV movie file to it.
Fortunately,
I have one of those I made earlier.
So you can see, as this has come up,
it has switched the display on
the camera out to show the frame.
And as I scrub about in it,
it will update with a slight
lag over the movie I have here.
[Transcript missing]
and I can turn sound on and off.
So if you've got demo for sound up,
I'll play it with sound on.
We turn the sound off and I'll
turn the video back on and you
can see that it's playing through.
You notice we can get a choice
of using the video out clock or
the default clock for the movie.
And there's additional options in
this thing that use the API that
Jean-Michel was just showing us.
And this is a QuickTime movie
like any other,
so we can scrub through it.
are all here today to talk about the
new feature of the QuickTime app.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you Kevin.
Back to Tim.
Thank you Jean-Michel, thank you Kevin.
Standard feature to have Kevin's
children in our demos during our session.
slides please?
There they are.
So now you get to close off and talk
a little bit about the road map for
some of the sessions that you may
have seen or you may have wanted to
see or you may see in the future.
So, just to give you an idea,
the overview session this morning was an
overview of the QuickTime technologies
in QuickTime 6 and Jaguar and where
we were and where we're going.
And then 601 was also this morning which
was talking about techniques you can use
to build a savvy QuickTime application
during 602 which is this session.
603 is just coming up.
It's integrating
QuickTime media together,
interactive technologies which can
tie different kinds of media together
and then more interactive sessions
following that this afternoon.
And then
and this is interesting,
these are all different than mine.
But in any case,
the feedback forum is Friday at 10:30.
Also Friday afternoon there's a
session on QuickTime for the web
and a session Friday later in the
afternoon on QuickTime for MPEG-4.
And so the important thing
I wanted to point out as well was
every afternoon from 1 to 4 p.m.
the QuickTime engineering
team is having hands-on.
and over here the contact information
is DTS at Apple.com and Jeff Low is
the technology evangelist and
that's Jeff Low at Apple.com
and I think I should have some
URLs coming up which are these.
So the standard QuickTime documentation
is at developer.apple.com/quicktime
and from there you can navigate
down to the sample code and you
can see the URLs for the sample code.
All these URLs are actually on
the developer.apple.com/wwc/urls
URL I believe and so if you are crafty
with your web browser you can find all
of these and so you can see the different
ones we showed and the simple video
out which has been updated and the SGData
proc sample which used to be Minimun.
and there's the slide for the
hands-on which is in 1-4 in room
G out all the way down and you'll find
lots of QuickTime engineers there.
Thanks.